Inheritance is a really important topic in object oriented programming and it refers to
a hierarchical structure of classes where one class inherits from another.
We often call the top class,
the base class or the parent class and
then the class that inherits from
that is sometimes called the derived class with the child class.
So imagine we have this program here and it has a class,
the class is class Animal and animals talk and if we compile this program and run it,
the animal talks which is great.
What we can do with inheritance is build a class,
call this class human that inherits from
class animal in that this is the syntax here to inherit from class animal,
and what we can do now is add an object of type human
and we can ask the human to talk and what we'll see is that the human can talk just like
the animal talks because class human inherits from class animal.
So first, the animal is talking and the human is talking.
Of course, we might want the human to talk differently than the animal.
In which case, we can create
a different class talk and
that class can talk differently because humans talk differently,
say, "Hello",
and now if we compile our program and run it,
the animal talks and the human says, "Hello",
which is great and we can even go further and add may be
a new member function to class Human which is walk.
In this case, all walk will do simply output, I'm walking,
but you could imagine a more sophisticated implementation these classes where may
be the class Animal has a position and by walking that human changes its position.
For now, we'll just compile and run this and see that a human can walk and talk,
we forgot to ask the human to walk,
so we tell the human to walk.
So we'll add a command for the human to walk,
we'll compile the program and now the animal talks then the human talks,
and then the human walks.
What we see of course is that if we ask the animal to walk,
it won't be able to do it because in inheritance,
the derived class, the child class
human inherits everything from its parent from the base class.
So it inherits talk,
but the inheritance doesn't go in the other direction.
So animals don't get all of
the different member data and member functions that humans have,
animals have the base member data,
and member functions than humans and other child classes can build on that.
So if we try and compile this function that's asking the animal to walk,
we'll get an error that says animal has no member walk.
Did you mean talk? That you could guess.